---
layout: post
title: Announcing our Google Summer of Code Students
author: Thorbj√∏rn Lindeijer
tags: gsoc
---

This year Tiled applied as an organization to [participate in the Google Summer
of Code](https://discourse.mapeditor.org/t/google-summer-of-code-2017/1979) for
_the first time_, thanks to Leon Moctezuma who helped a lot with the process. We
were accepted by Google, after which many interested students approached us with
their proposals and send in pull requests. Two more mentors joined the Tiled
organization (Erik Schilling and Elvis Stansvik), so we told Google we were
ready to take on 3 students (out of 11 proposals).

Now we're happy to announce that we were granted all three slots! This summer
we're going to be working with:

### Ketan Gupta (ketanhwr)

Ketan already submitted half a dozen of small patches, mostly improvements to
the custom command system. His project is an ambitious collection of
enhancements he'd like to make to Tiled, ranging from small things like
auto-crop to layer locking and bigger projects like improving the custom command
system, the polygon editing tools, support for infinite maps and moving of
selected tiles.

Erik Schilling (Ablu) will be the primary mentor for Ketan and you can follow
his progress in
[this forum thread](https://discourse.mapeditor.org/t/general-improvements-and-bug-fixes-gsoc-17/2354).

### Ben Trotter (Bdtrotte)

Ben made some very nice improvements to the support for hexagonal and staggered
maps. His project for this summer is about [Wang
tiles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wang_tile) and how they could be used to
automate tile placement in Tiled. Once a Wang set is defined, it can be used to
fill areas or to automatically pick the right tiles while editing in similar
fashion to the
[Terrain tool](https://doc.mapeditor.org/manual/using-the-terrain-tool/). Ben
will work to unlock the full potential of this system.

Leon Moctezuma (leonidax) will be the primary mentor for Ben and you can follow
his progress in
[this forum thread](https://discourse.mapeditor.org/t/wang-tiles-and-filling-improvements/2339/1).

### Mohamed Ahmed Thabet (thabetx)

Mohamed accompanied his proposal with patches to add a marching-ants effect to
selected objects and to enable [changing the tile of tile
objects](https://github.com/bjorn/tiled/pull/1525). His project is about adding
reusable object templates, in similar fashion to Unity prefabs. You will be able
to instantiate object templates from a library and the instances will update
when the template in the library is changed. This much requested feature should
be a real time saver.

Elvis Stansvik will be the primary mentor for Mohamed and you can follow his
progress in [this forum
thread](https://discourse.mapeditor.org/t/reusable-object-templates/2340/1).

### Thanks to Everybody!

I would like to thank everybody who made this possible. Google for running this
program, Leon for getting our participation started, all students for their
great work as part of applying for a slot, and Erik and Elvis for stepping up as
additional mentors!

Now the time for "community bonding" has started, in preparation of the first
coding period starting on May 30th. Please feel free to join in to any
discussions, code reviews and functionality tests throughout the program to help
make these projects successful!
